hey guys today I've got some special
guests here their specialty is different
to what I'm used to it's arm wrestling
um something interesting is we're all
pretty much just I don't want to do that
again
you got the end you're in the book end
right I I don't know what it's meant to
look like but
um this is Ryan bone he's uh the
Australian Champion so he's number one
in his weight category which is the 100
or 105 class and number two overall uh
and then we've got Ethan Tunstall who's
he's a young up-and-comer he's 20 years
old and in his age group he's number one
in Australia but working towards that
top 10 rank
um which I I have no idea about this
sport I'm going to give him an arm
wrestle today and you guys are going to
see it now something that I told them
both is you're probably going to make me
look like a [__] on the table so I I
need to settle the scores and I'm going
to bench press with these guys as well
so so what I do to them in the bench
today they're probably going to do the
same and worse uh on the armrest so
we've got an arm wrestling table is that
right yeah since I was on the way
probably about half an hour away right
so when that comes they're going to put
me through my paces and we're going to
see just a totally different level of
strength so as far as I know the
strength that I have here with weights
has nothing to do with the stuff that
they do do you do much stuff with
weights boys I'm dipping my tummy that's
a part of the reason why I'm here just
to learn from you just because I've gone
so far into the specific strength of arm
wrestling for 10 years and I've never
trained my fundamental bass power and
it's
but you do wait specific time wrestling
sideways all this weird stuff that
people give you weird looks at the gym
this stuff is strange when the way he's
moving his hand uh it's just like it
looks really technical I quite like it
and actually I'm really fascinated and
and who knows where this may leave me
I've quit powerlifting oh you know Larry
Larry he's crossing over it's funny you
say that he just showed me a video which
I'm going to post probably right now of
him beating Larry Wheels in a second to
him that's just like it's no surprise
because being strong with weights has
nothing to do with unrest but to me it's
like that guy's one of the strongest men
on the planet uh so anyway I'm super
intrigued with today we're going to
start with uh bench press session uh or
not just bench press we'll do an upper
body session we're just going to do a
few techniques and then they're going to
take me through my paces
let's do it like I look at you
posturally and I look at the way that
your upper body
um the mobility in your upper back and
that kind of changes the way that I'm
going to go honestly talking about that
like I have been do arm wrestling I
became so kythonic yeah
um I've only been benching for like two
weeks and already in two weeks yeah like
just just with the auxiliary stuff
although or whatever whatever we're
calling what are the ancillary it's
ancillary exercises well there's so many
different names it doesn't really matter
accessory exercises supplementary
movements but like I think I still have
bad posture but this is like
so much better than what it was just a
month ago the fact is it's not really
good and bad posture so that posture is
probably good for your sport yeah yeah
yeah do you get it so therefore why do
we call it bad posture but my objective
with my strength work is not to look at
what you're already doing so it's like I
I take on a rugby player or a martial
artist and I don't teach them how to
play rugby or fight they're doing plenty
of that and I don't teach them how to do
more of this like the attributes that
they're able to develop by playing their
Sports in here that's pointless what I
want to do is find the things that
you're not working when you're when
you're competing or when you're training
specific specificity and I'm going to
strengthen that so that you can I guess
it's like working towards longevity in
your sport so it's about joint health
it's about being strong kind of
everywhere to give you a better weapon a
better tool which is your body so that
you can go and attack it with as much
specificity as you want one of the
biggest problems in my sport which is
powerlifting is too much specificity
leads to a lot of weak points yeah and
and potential for injury and slows down
long-term progression what happens is
you know people talk about plateauing
the people that I work with that we're
not really old enough to Plateau so I
don't want to say there's no such thing
as not plateauing but we haven't
plateaued yet you know and speaking to
someone like Ed Cohen you may have heard
of him uh greatest powerlifter of all
time we were asked the question in one
of our presentations one time what HD
plateau and his answer was you shouldn't
there's always a weak point to work on
right so you're working on your
strengths in your arm wrestling I'm not
here to work on your strength you've got
plenty of that and you know how to do
that and by the sounds of it you've been
working with with someone else that
works specifically on your strength too
yeah yeah Lachlan are there who is the
number one ranked office in the country
he's come from a power lifting
background he understands strength a
whole lot more than I do yeah I'm I'm
somewhat trusting him on Guiding me on
the day-to-day uh
he's not your level coach but he he's
way above me so he's guiding and he he
knows on another strength specific to
powerlifting yes
and I'm going to give you strength
specific to whole body strength there's
a few ways that I like to do this
firstly is to ask you how do you do it
you want me to just show you what I do
just so that I can the fact is when I'm
teaching someone how to bench press
everyone knows to push the heavy thing
off their chest I don't want to tell you
to push the heavy thing off your chest
and there's lots of other things that
you may be doing correct so if I say to
do it you might already be doing it and
it might just confuse you so what I like
to do is see what you're doing see some
of the you know a couple of cues that I
can help you with that I want you to
focus on rather than just giving you a
shopping list of things to do yeah so
that's why a lot of the times I don't
like to to demonstrate first I'm the
only time I Demo First is someone comes
to me with a major injury or something
like that and it's like I need to do it
properly I go blank canvas but for most
people you show me first and then we're
going to work with that so so there's no
right and wrong here right
okay
this is I'm about 10 minutes
so the thing that I see okay put it down
rack up now
I see is you've got a real tight hip
flexors right what I'm looking for is
the feet to go further back than this so
here's some of my landmarks I want the
foot to be 45 degrees so where you are
we could make that a little bit more
aggressive by bringing your feet further
back and trying to lift your heel
slightly higher so the way that I
achieve that what that does is it
tilts your pelvis so you basically
putting your legs back here which
creates more of an arch in your back
right but some people that have such
tight hip effects which I can sit with
you it has no carryover at all so that's
what I wanted to see can I bring your
feet further back I I I will certainly
admit that
I have no idea how to engage my legs to
help this thing go up yeah like when
when it's a real simple like all you do
is lock your feet in place and push your
heels down that's it right so so where
you are your feet aren't far back enough
to get that leverage gotcha right so the
way to get your feet far backing up is
slide back a little bit further get your
head off the bench good now bring your
feet back a couple inches good now we
keep them there and the objective is to
push your heels down towards the ground
right you're going to feel it real tight
yet but I can see you already got your
flexors and a tougher meaning so yeah
it's uncomfortable but that's not an
injury pain so push it downwards
pressure from now now slide in and
maintain this now with the pressure
[Music]
about 45 degrees can we say that on
camera now push the heels downwards
right so that pushing the heels
downwards that's externally from the
anteriorly rotating the pelvis now we've
got more of an arch here which is going
to be uncomfortable but that's fine now
from here your arching here but now it
should force an arch up here as well so
squeeze your shoulder blades back and
down don't worry about the thing in your
hands squeeze your shoulder blades back
and down now maintain that shoulder
blade position push your heels down
maintenance and relax the arms relax the
arms and grab the bar now why your hands
on the bar and think about this
squeezing back and down and keep that
backing down a little bit good now don't
push it off allow me to unwrap it
squeeze your shoulder blades back and
down don't use your pecs use your
triceps to lock it out and hold that bar
and squeeze the shoulder back and down
good now heels down now lower it here
good don't try and tuck your elbows
they'll naturally tell you okay push
those heels down good
straight down straight up
good
okay already a little bit better cool
right
I'm comfortable uncomfortable right yeah
there's a few other things that I'm
going to show you to do
um which will make it probably more
uncomfortable but stronger yeah like I
said I've been mentioned for no more
than
three weeks and already I feel it fixing
my posture yeah man like that
totally so that's that's the thing that
I find with a lot of people is I teach
the arch to even non-competitive
Ventures but because it teaches
awareness of it's called thoracic
extension it's it's how to pick up your
chest so so when you hear the cute chest
up that's it's not a chest move but it's
a back movement and it's in particular
that part of your spine so your upper
back is the opposite of what you're
doing unrestling yeah but what most
people are doing in front of a computer
on the phone or whatever this is what
creates this part of the posture so it's
not you know you don't want to say good
or bad monster because it's suitable for
what you're doing yeah but in terms of
lifting heavy objects with your
shoulders
a lot of like overhead lifting and
pushing exercises needs this chest
position or shoulder blade position
sorry spine position to set your
shoulder blades where we want them to go
yeah because if you're around and
forward and you're trying to like put
your hands overhead now
right pull further back further back
further back it's hard for you to get
there because you need thoracic
extension first right so this bench
arching your upper back is going to help
with that right so
um honestly I'm excited about that
because I for 10 years been so quite
Aquatic and I think
I think not only jersey numbers but I
think health-wise yeah it's just been
chronically
unhealthy well
does it hurt uh
it hurts I think day-to-day stuff
twisting repetitive stuff yeah it does
so so it's a loss of Mobility yeah right
so that's right day-to-day tasks tend to
be a little bit more difficult so that's
all we've got to try and do is make your
body more able to do other tasks have
you noticed my range of motion on my
left and right left no it doesn't arm
wrestle right that's right right you
can't knock it out yeah that's just so
thick yeah build up the elbow joints all
of the connective tissue is stronger and
thicker yeah so it's just like when I do
a squat for example I have to hold the
bathroom call it a collar because I've
got so much years of bench pressing
there's so much tension around my
shoulders now I've lost a huge amount of
Mobility it's bad for life but it's
great for benching so so that that elbow
might be bad for life but perfect
yeah so I'll show you now what I'm after
okay
so where you were young people kind of
like not far back enough and it's like
where do I push them here but when you
like when you come back and you're able
to bring your feet further back so as I
said
you know the solar for roughly 45
degrees so this is loose now I'm pushing
the heels down arches the hell out of
your back now when we Arch our back it
answers our lower back we want to match
that in our upper back
so what I do is I use the bar and I
squeeze my shoulder blades back and down
now if you see my grip is wider than
yours
okay so I was teaching you know to not
flare your elbows so if you're not
you're almost so much yep
if you read anywhere in the text you'll
say tuck your elbows in a bench press
yep correct you should but what a lot of
people do is they go oh I should tuck my
elbows in a bench press and all of a
sudden they do do this and it becomes
this horrible tricep exercise yes not
yeah I want them tucked relative to this
but that's tucked
when you're so one one part of the body
moves there's another movement down the
line right so when we Arch our back so
doing that arch your back as hard as
possible good where's your shoulder
blades going yeah they went together and
that's just what happens you don't have
to think about it so much so extension
of the spine so arching your back is
paired with retraction and depression of
the scapula which is back and down
that's also paired with external
rotation of this bone so so when that's
all happening right the elbows will
naturally tuck you don't have to force
more tuck that's just weak okay okay so
if you watch what I'm doing again
okay so here's the setup rules now I'll
give you the shopping list and choose
for the audience at home sit on the edge
of the bench rule number one sit on the
edge of the bench so you don't whack
your head on the bar when you lay down
it's important
okay slide back so that I can bring my
feet back far enough because if I'm just
here I can't get it back far enough to
get that leverage bring the feedback far
enough
push the heels downwards they're not
going to touch the ground but there's
downwards pressure from start to finish
sliding into position so my eyes are
behind the barbell
okay heels down shoulder blades back and
down from here when I unrank it's
triceps that I'm using to unwrap I'm not
using my chest to prop so the natural
instinct is to push with your chest but
that makes your shoulder blades it takes
your shoulder blades out of position
right so so shoulder so triceps to
unrack right and I maintain this Capital
position
pushing the heels down from start to
finish
yeah for me I know I've had trouble just
with my mind muscle connection with the
unwracking yeah so it takes you out of
position I'm like
so it's not just you it's with everyone
because the instincts with a push when
that happens the shoulder blade follows
but with the bench press you've got this
board that you're laying on which jams
your shoulders
in a certain position so if you're
protracting it's hard it's hard to get a
boat when you lower it down to your
chest they need to be retracted with
that board that you're laying on you'll
stop that from happening so that's why
we start with the retracted you gotcha
right okay let's add some weight
like and it fails really really quickly
like are we I asked the dude at the gym
to spot me the other day and and he was
like oh did you you're killing them like
no trust me to rep seven to watch what
happens and then they get to rep seven
and just yeah there's nothing there so
so get this a lot of people say bottom
of the movement is chest the middle is
something the top is that
all of it is related the top isn't
always it can be but it's not always
lack of triceps a lot of the times it's
from being taken out of position at the
bottom that now that you're out of
position your Leverage is so poor you
can't finish the movement and then the
triceps get the flame
you would have just protracted which is
exactly what happens every rep that gets
further and further you protract more
and more and more and more so you're
more and more out of position as we get
to the later reps so there's a few
solutions to this one of them
is to keep the Reps low
you don't need to do tens and 15s and
20s a lot of people say I'm a novice so
we need to do higher reps to learn to
get more reps in you don't want more
reps of bad technique
do less reps get it right and do more
sets if you want to get more volume so
every set we're going to refine slightly
you're issue
is hip tightness and upper back so if
you master this position
do it now while you're sitting here good
now put your arms in front of them good
yeah good so you're maintaining this
retraction so push forward like you're
doing a throw so let these protracts
good so that's what we want to avoid now
bring it back good when you bring that
back your chest picks up because they're
paired with each other now I want to get
you to do a wider group now okay okay
because now that you're attract you're
retracting your scapula and arching it
up the back it's a stronger position so
put this finger on the line yeah perfect
so slide back feet back
um probably too far good uh probably too
far good heels down slide slide for me
let's look down further further further
good now drive those heels down squeeze
the shoulder blade back and down relax
so you can maintain that shoulder blade
position you focus on this and I got the
I got the bar I got the bar now
shoulders back and down good hold your
breath five breaths hold your breath
don't breathe five reps good
yeah
yeah and actually before the unrank as
well so I did that now so what happens
is and that's one of the things that I
see not just you but yes on YouTube but
wobbling on the bench every rep
right yes so so that's taking you out of
position further and further and that's
because all of this is moving so you
want locked legs locked scaps locked
breath hold and then it just goes
rather than gotcha okay that instability
is going to stop you from lifting his
head yeah okay yeah I feel like even
when the weight is completely manageable
if I pick up what I'm like it's it's
getting better over the weeks but like
of course it's terrible it's like this
when a baby learns to walk you don't say
you idiot do it [__] properly you
just know they need to get more reps in
yeah everyone starts with an erratic bad
path when they first pick up a barbell
and Venture them so I'm not going to sit
there and say oh bad Technique No that's
something where we say get more reps in
just like a baby walking learns to walk
better you've got to do it in here I do
have two how long 12 and two what is the
two-year-old Bench
way less than me that's for sure
probably less than here
[Music]
okay I'll I'll let you use the belt
after
okay
so I slide back so that I can get my
feet far back enough and and I've said
it a few times eyes behind the bar a lot
of people use the landmark
eyes in line with the bar because it's
just like an arbitrary about landmark it
seems about right the objective is we
want to unwrap it and not get the
upwards
but eyes in line with the bar my eyes
are here my shoulders are there that
means I have to travel
really fast into that position I don't
need to so I want to be efficient with
my movement for two reasons travel less
sounds logical but also the further back
I reach
the more I'm taking my shoulders into
protraction taking them out of position
right so we're minimizing all of that
right so slide back
feedback heels down okay slide into
position which is either behind the bar
shoulder blades back and down
now for this unrank I hold my breath
before I start
oh
exhale
right and a super stable I was looking
at like Bailey and his movie like that
probably
maybe that's the objective is whatever
if it's a moving joint that's moving
everything else still
yeah that's a goal what are you working
up to today
um
my last session
was one I did 140 for
140 for tens 150 for eighths so it's 160
for sixes today is what I'm due for so
last week this is still warm up yeah
look hey I used to be a lot stronger
than this as well yeah so now my bench
press at the moment is about 200
kilograms for one and that's really hard
but that's good I'm 100 kilos that's a
double body weight bench up
my best to 50. when I was strong well
yeah arm wrestlers aren't though like
there's a few arm wrestlers
but then it's really loud
as high as the world champion almost
like he's he's top bench is 115 I think
really
wow nice and yet he can be the world's
best isn't that funny
no I get that
that matters
um but I still believe that
if you've got the specificity thing
mailed
adding strength to your entire body
won't take it away yeah so yeah I agree
with it strength is never a weakness
yeah
slide back feet back heels down and they
stay down
so I I jammed my shoulder blades in here
I noticed your clearance as well it's
like you're so efficient you you went
over that like two millimeters yeah yeah
so that's the thing as well if you look
at this bench compared to probably what
you use at the gym and most people this
is a competition rack if you look at the
pin Heights they're one in increments
and most commercial gyms you've got two
choices one that's too high and one
that's true
right so so and and also the lip that it
sits in yep is usually really high for
safety to keep the bar in place which
means you have to push it all the way
over that lip Yeah the more you push it
the more you're going to protract and
take out a position so that's what
competition standard benches understand
yeah and that's what they uh um
have attended to so so that's right the
objective is to maintain this position
and just clear the right
the the smallest amount of movements
possible
okay so did you do I haven't done this
one yet
okay
slide back
yeah so why didn't you remember
slide back big back up on the balls of
the feet
good heels down slide into position
heels down hard feel it down switch
shoulder blades back okay hold your
breath
technology but the scapulas back and
down back and down they're protracting
see the shirt it's all wrinkled on the
front let's go
five reps heels down heels down heels
down
good
okay
as I was laying you down
yeah have you ever used the belt before
no
yeah
okay so just um put it in
and we have here we'll see
yep there we go okay so so I'll get you
to use it okay so so the way the belt
works is to take a big breath to fill
your belly with air push your belly into
the belt
and then it's like imagine a balloon you
feel the pressure of that balloon now
tie a rope around the middle of it and
now feel the pressure of that balloon
it's a lot firmer there's more pressure
inside that's called intra-abdominal
pressure so what that does is it
increases the rigidity of this balloon
here
so that your it takes the load off a
little bit it can yes but for other
reasons but yes sometimes it takes load
off the back because now this is
teaching you to push those muscles that
I want on so your abs into the belt so
now you're using those muscles to
actively stabilize your core like I can
feel it straight away that it is going
to help you're not just passively just
laying there now yeah okay I was talking
about this just the other day with
literally my wife about people rushing
in to help the spot and the dangers of
it
um what is your opinion on that so from
my opinion is if you're a novice it's
probably better to stand close
um if you're a novice lifter and a
novice spotter it's probably best to
stand close and be more cautious but
when you kind of know what you're doing
like you kind of you you know like more
advanced people kind of know if the
rep's not there and that they should
well I don't want to say they will but
they should kind of re-rack it and not
really attempt the rep but they're going
to fail
for strength training the objective is
to not misreps going to fail is is what
we see and what we think is the right
way of training to uh to get stronger
and improving but in in the strongest
athletes in the world are starting to
learn that's that's doing too much yeah
yeah I like it for an exercise like this
anyway
time and place uh okay
[__] I'm nervous now
wish me luck
foreign
so therefore I chose the right number
today yeah
so last week I did so we go up in 10
kilo increments
week one was one forty one forty the
tens I did 10 10 and see how I just said
that and the third set I did 12. yep
because on the first set I said I
probably could have done 12. then the
next week I did 150 for eight eight
eight that's it I did ten so now I did
six if I follow the trends six six and
like if it's still like I keep asking
myself that after we said how many could
I have done I feel like I had a
I'll ask myself that same question on
the next set and on the third set if I'm
still answering the same answer I'll go
for eight yep
that's not there's no right and wrong
it's just how I've been doing it
instead of going to fail on the first
set and wiping all of your energy when
you first start you're better off
having more quality sets
right over the entire session than
having one all-out set don't fail and
fatiguing yourself for the rest of the
session gotcha okay which is why you
know when people say you should go to
fail it's like not necessarily yeah it's
like how do you feel after you've gone
to fail you know what I mean like
over here and then you can't reduce the
quality for the rest of the session
I'm going to get my timer because I'm on
my top sets uh climbing the top set is
pretty important yep
so for me I like to do about eight
minutes to rest in between sets like
this eight minutes yeah warming up it's
less
because the warm-up set I only have a
couple of Reds
um but that's also for me for someone
like you maybe maybe five or so minutes
is enough
because when I'm taking you to your
potential at this point go a little bit
wider that no no this finger yeah great
okay feet back heels down slide into
position now we're going to get that
breath hold from start to finish
shoulders back and down shoulders back
and down shoulders back and down heels
down big breath shoulders back and down
shoulders
it up
so it's just instinct when you bench you
bench you push don't push lock your
elbows out you got to keep the shoulder
position and I've got you I'm your pegs
I'm your pegs all your job is is to pull
your shoulders back and lock your
triceps out allow me to guide into the
position the moment you go like this
you're doing this your shoulder blades
are off of the bench and you're out of
position from the start yeah
no chance and so because I'm
anticipating more load I'm but that's
exactly right when when people go
heavier and heavier and heavier they go
okay if I did 60 kilos with that much
muscle I'm going 80 now so I've got to
use more muscle yeah yeah so don't do
that the objective is to do the same
technique that you use on the empty bath
yeah from start to finish do the same
thing all right so no aggression we
don't need aggression we need control
right okay cool
so your job I'll be your face I'll take
that plate
um
heels down hard okay no heavy pushing
breathing breathing breathing breathing
breathing shoulders back now shoulders
back and down big breath shoulders back
and down shoulders back and down
heels down okay lower it to your chest
heels down heels down lower on your
chest
so good three just one more to do good
good
yeah it's challenging to definitely to
me the biggest challenge is keeping that
back and it's counterintuitive because
when you push punch through that's not
how it works push punch throw the
shoulder blade movement but we don't
have any boards jamming our shoulder
blades out of position when we do those
actions so don't think of it as
functional movement it's a bench press
it's not functional it's a tool that we
use to train right
so
we've got to unlearn what we're supposed
to be doing yeah right it's
takes coordination but it'll come
I'll tell you what I teach people to do
is go home and dream about it oh let's
do this shoulder blades backing let me
do it now shoulder blades back and down
arms in front
now now you're very here
yeah you want so your shoulder blades
backing up you want back and down right
good now keep that position and just do
that
don't use you don't need to use your
pets right now
you're just locking your elbows outward
see your your shoulders are back now
it's good okay that's what you have to
do on the benches now what happens is
you feel the heavy weight in your hands
and you start going oh I gotta walk
around totally no but I was the kid I
used to play tennis I used to walk down
the street with my mum should be in the
bank or something and I'd be going
outside yeah right right without my arms
yeah
I've always been a big personal dreaming
totally I I become the person I'm
studying I'm like why the hell yeah yeah
yeah you predict do this so I'm all for
the visualization yeah well I see that
about both of you when I was I was
sitting with these guys at breakfast
this morning and they're both as they're
talking to me they're doing the amount
of times they just do this when they
talk to you
yeah do you notice that you do that I
know I don't even know that's that's how
I told you
what's this what 160.
it's disheartening because when I was
you know training for television
competition I wouldn't touch 160.
there's no need for 160. it's easy but
now it's very hard
but that's okay
that's how it goes
I definitely felt that was harder than
the first set yeah the third set I'm
going to go for six again I'm not gonna
do that I don't think I'd be able to I
think it'll do me yeah okay first again
I felt like you can see you pause longer
on the last one yeah a couple of reasons
one is because in piloting competition
you gotta pause
so when something I do a lot of touch
and go reps is I at least pause the last
one just to keep that to keep in touch
with that yeah yeah but the belt to work
you have to be holding your breath and
pushing your belly into it
okay the next thing I want you to do is
you're lowering that weight
too high on your chest uh
sorry sorry
let's go this one here
good
okay watch me
you're you're hitting here the higher
the higher on your chest you hit the
more your elbows play
I want them tight so I was telling him
to stop talking so much but for you I
tell you you're too tough because you're
here so the way I tell you to tuck is to
hit lower on your chest aim for kind of
just the kind of mid sternum-ish
everyone's everyone's different with
that point but for you that's where I
see is probably just about right
Okay so
yeah good slide back feedback up on the
balls of the feet push those heels down
okay slide in the position
okay heels down hard shoulder blades
back even harder remember I got the
weight don't do anything different big
breath shoulder blades back shoulder
blades back shoulder blades back hold
there good lower a two standard and
drive good
just one more just one more nice good
[Music]
that was stable
okay two rows
big back big back
very good heels down slide in position
breathing breathing breathing breathing
shoulder blades back and down for side
further slide further shoulder goes back
and down squeeze them together squeeze
them together heels down okay big breath
shoulder blades back and down shoulder
blades back and down shoulder heels down
harder heels down harder let's go
control it down
one more control it down
good yeah
yeah
I can see that that's heavier but you
look like you could have done five on
that yeah okay
um one thing that I did
do differently then but I'm not sure I
was right I was worried about is this
going to cause into the body it was like
three I was too far back I was on my tip
my toes I saw that yeah yeah it is bad
for the stability here's the thing it's
bad for the stability it's kind of good
because it forces you to Arch a little
bit more but we want to avoid that I
want you planting so you're only
planting the balls of your feet but I do
want that plant and sometimes I get
there and I'm like oh [__] I'm on the
balls of my feet
but if I can stay still it's still okay
because it's I can maintain that arch
really nicely
but for the next step Bring It Forward a
touch okay that was uh yeah that's good
that you're in touch with that good
observation yeah I've killed this very
well like this is something different
let's see I will like you haven't said
anything so let's see how it goes I'm
very picky with how often I stop you
yeah you know what I mean like a lot of
times like I do want to stop you in your
tracks but it's like I'm going to do
that 10 times
it's it's uh paralysis by analysis you
know what I mean some things are fine
exactly exactly
all right
that one looked more solid than awesome
yeah I was thinking about exactly what
you said with the toe position I was
like don't do that now
a lot more solid and I did come in with
more aggression as well
um controls aggression yeah not like
backslap aggression I don't like that
for a bench press it's very technical so
the more aggressive you get the more
detrimental it is to um
I've been through scenes where I've
tried
Mega hyper
and now now I'm in a season where I'm
like make a calm yeah and mega calm is
better you know obviously so just look
for different people yeah some people
some people I'm sure are psychos when
they come in and yeah
yeah the big laundry push car Style just
out of the gate but it might work for
him yeah yeah everyone's different
absolutely there's no difference between
that and the set before yeah don't treat
it differently that's what I'm mentally
I know as you were talking about round
number I think that I'm like I'm like
just don't worry I'll just do the [__]
that he said to do yeah exactly it's so
if you notice we did a smaller
incremental increase for a research so
it won't shock you yeah right so you've
just done that and you could have done
it for five yeah you know so for me like
objectively your strength levels can do
too and more
but now you've got to put it in the
Packers
so don't do anything different okay
you're not super like that's good heels
down goes down let's get this perfect
slow down and it won't start anymore
good good now heels down hard now you
get the shoulder blades you get the
shoulder blades good okay keep them
there I got the weight okay get the
hands perfect get the hands perfect take
your time big breath the shoulder blades
back shoulder blades back shoulder
blades back shoulder blades legs
straight away on this side yeah because
I did the aggression thing right set up
you did the impression thing you did uh
I [__] got this I knew it straight
away I said no I'm like
and and then the next thing you did is
you said yep yeah I know when you've got
it yeah yeah you don't have to tell me
yeah she said no ah did you sorry no
because I feel like my bad a lot of
people are like yeah I got it now and
it's like no you don't you just breathe
out okay so no no talking those are the
things like right now that it's at the
top set those small things I won't
accept yep okay we've got to get this
one right okay yeah so take your time no
aggression to get this off I promise you
I've got this wait there okay I'm gonna
do your picks okay watch me here see how
I'm standing here I'm not using muscles
I'm stacked I'm resting on my joints
that's how I want you to be when you
hold this weight in your hands your
stacked that weight is going through
your hands through your locked elbow
joint through your shoulder blade on the
bench you're just like I'm standing here
I'm not holding 100 kilograms I'm
stacked I'm doing using no energy
you're going to do the same thing Don't
Force It Off
okay let me just roll it into position
good
take your time take your time
no psycho take your time go further go
further more more a bit more a bit more
one more good good now get those heels
down hard heels down hard good now
shoulder blades back and down good big
breath shoulder blades back and down
shoulders back and down shoulders back
and down hold let's go let's go heels
down here hard good and again heels down
hard heels out hard and again one more
let's go heels down hard heels open
we could have gone more could have gone
wrong yeah
it's just the head game
yeah right
um relaxing like you said
was a big factor then obviously they
didn't feel
heavy it didn't feel heavy yeah like it
didn't it didn't shock me like you said
so yeah it's just yeah so so now it's
about like learning the head game right
so it's like don't look at that it's
like 100 oh that's the number that's the
number you do the maths now so yeah do
the numbers but objectively do the
numbers calculate I've done three on a
hundred therefore I should be able to do
you know two on I don't know 104 and and
one on 108 like you should be able to do
kind of 110-ish yeah do you know what I
mean so it's like when that's how I do
it it's like there's a spectrum with the
rep ranges and all these and I don't
look at a weight that I haven't done
think I haven't done it so therefore I
can't do it I look at it as though like
oh I've done 10 reps on this weight and
five reps on the next and so on it's
just the number
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
the right arm wanted to do everything
yeah so you're getting further further
out of position with your right arm
right position wins yeah you've got four
reps and Away you've never done two
easy all right just took the boys
through their places on a bench press
session
Ryan's previous best before this was of
course he hasn't bench press so don't
make any judgment or anything like this
his previous message he will uh his best
was 100 kilograms he attempted two reps
and missed the second rep we didn't make
him stronger we just positioned his body
a little bit better and he was able to
get four reps on it today so it just
goes to show the value of understanding
proper lifting technique and technique
does matter you know these guys are
armed wrestlers so it's a type of
athlete that I've never worked with
before so I'm very lucky to have these
guys so stay tuned for hopefully a lot
more progression videos uh with these
guys obviously there's a big imbalance
these guys use their right arms because
apparently in arm wrestling no one cares
about the left
seriously I banned it from my YouTube
channel legit yeah hey I don't know to
make judgment I mean they've got that in
powerlifting everyone hates archbenching
they hate Sumo deadlifts so I guess
there has to be a thing in in arm
wrestling uh but you know the challenge
for me is these guys have big imbalances
they're very right hand dominant and
they don't spend a lot of time
strengthening their left arm so my job
isn't to teach them how to arm wrestle
my job is to teach their bodies to be
strong so that they can continue arm
wrestling for as long as possible
potentially injury-free but anyway hope
you enjoyed today's video guys